First thing we should do is to bring peace in our life. We should become extremely peaceful. I always tell you.
I agree, you have to face too many difficulties in life, but you must bring peace in life.
You should give me this present on my birthday, “Shri Mataji we shall keep peace in our lives.”
You should be extremely peaceful, peaceful (cool) like ice. You should be extremely tolerant. Without that it will not work out.
Even after you bear with all, you will have no problem. Everything will clear out from the Sahasrara.
Whatever you say, you bear with, all will go away (from the Sahasrara).
So, it is better not to think much about it saying, I am distressed, I have this trouble etc.
What is all this, any way!
You have become saints now, what distress can you have? Can distress (or sorrow?) stay with a saint?
You should now have a conviction; now that we have become saints,
we have become very great, how can afflictions and distresses, stay with us?
We are the ones who heal others’ afflictions, like soap we wash all. How can we become dirty?
Once you have this firm conviction first thing you will have, is peace. First thing, you will become peaceful within.
And as soon as you are peaceful you will start seeing everything in the proper perspective.
So long as peace is not established within, you will not be able to see anything in the proper perspective but will see it upside down.
Forming an opinion about someone, assessing a situation are such things that if your mind is upset you will not be able to see them clearly.
Hence you should have peace established within. Pray for peace. Mother has told you to be peaceful.
When you become peaceful you will understand how relationships are formed,
how all joy comes, how friendships are formed, how things work out.
When you are disturbed, the angels who hover above you, all the arrangements that I have made for you- cannot understand what to do with such people.
Suddenly they are in a haste and hurry.
Some people are such that they are not peevish but for everything they will say, “Where should I keep it, here or there?”
Their hands are always moving like this. It shows disturbed mind. Some persons are irritable, which is also a disturbed mind.
There is a variety of disturbed minds; some persons do not express their anger and suddenly it bursts out.
Some people become morose. Is it the sign of a saint? Saints come into the world to give.
They want to give to others. Persons who go to them should get compassion, should get love, should get satisfaction, should get protection!
And mainly, the person should feel peaceful, he should say, “I met so and so and felt so peaceful! How peaceful he himself is!”
So I have to tell you, that you might be the highest of highest, first thing [that] you have to give Me today is that in your talk,
in your behavior, in your heart, you will reside one with Love.
And the second thing I want to ask is that you should be peaceful people.
Try to have peace with yourself. Don’t fight with yourself.
Now, the western people have one problem [that] they fight with themselves.
“How is it this is happening to me? I am so bad. I am no good. I have done this. I am so bad.”
If you go on fighting with yourself, then you will become weak.
On the contrary, you must say, “I am so good. What’s wrong with me? I’ve got realization.
What’s wrong with me?” Have that confidence in you,
and then it will work out. And as
result of that only you start shouting at others.
But supposing you understand that there is nothing wrong with you,you have to be peaceful.
We all have to be very peaceful people and you have seen, My peaceful nature has solved so many problems just like that.
So try to achieve that peace within you.
That peace should not be lost at any cost,
and should not be also expressed outside in a way, like I sometimes. My peace itself becomes terrible.
But you don’t have that kind of a
possibility, so you just don’t do it.
You just don’t do it, never do it that way.
Try to be
extremely peaceful, try to make your forehead relaxed.
Many people come to Me with [face] like this,  you see (distorted, twisted face),
then I just know that there is a big bhoot on the head sitting,
then I shout at them. Keep your forehead relaxed, relaxed.
“I am not doing anything, Mother
is doing everything. Relax, relax, relax.”
If you relax you’ll find that your heart will open.
“My heart cannot open.” Why, why can’t you open your heart? Because
you have no trust in yourself. Try to trust yourself. Open your Agnya, open your Ekadasha and your Sahasrara, and your heart will open.
Once your Sahasrara is open, your heart will open automatically,
so you will have a peaceful life.
So today I am asking for two things from you.
It’s a funny thing that a Mother has to ask for a gift.
And the gift you have to give – first one – is that you should be peaceful.
You should express peacefulness through your own character, talking.
But it doesn’t mean that you should be people who are bleak,
or who are – we can say that – are morbid people or people who tolerate nonsense.
No, there is a way of resistance.
But a resistance, of a peaceful resistance, that you are
not afraid of anything;
you are not frightened of anything; you are not going to bow down to anything; you are not going to compromise with anything,
but you are peaceful.
That sort of a temperament you must develop and also express outside, is very important.
If you talk to somebody sweetly, then you may get the peace of mind because you have given peace to another person.
Whatever you give to another person, that you feel within
yourselves. But if you are quarrelling with another person,
actually, it is the reflection of
your quarrelling nature within yourself.
Today, there is a big dearth and big cry and big organizations working out the peace missions.
The peace mission is within yourself! Let us start all of us the Sahaja Yogis, who are great saints sitting here,
decide today that we are going to make peace with ourselves
and with others.
But first and foremost thing the peace cannot be made with quarrels. You see, like America and Russia want to decide it,
with missiles – the peace part.
They say: “Let’s fight out.
As many as will remain, then they can live in peace.
Let us, all those who are fighting, kill each other!” They think this is the solution of the problem.
It is the other way around. Let everybody live peacefully within themselves and give peace to others,
so that this peace will become a nucleus for the peace of the world.
So your great task today is to establish a great source of peaceful people.
We have so many Sahaja Yogis here.
You’re sitting in complete peace and happiness and joy, you don’t know you are emitting all that peace, channelizing it and doing it.
Now for us today to decide first of all in our hearts,
that we will take to peaceful methods, when we are traveling, we will be taking to peaceful methods.
Anybody who is trying to provoke you or trying to create a problem or divide you on any issue whatsoever, run away from that person
as fast as possible.
Anybody who talks of peace, the peace makers, stick on to that person.
Then only you will understand that you are also getting peace.
You, here, you have come to get peace, not to create problems or to listen to your problems, but to get to peace.
Peace is a nature or is the quality of your Spirit.
So, once you jump onto your peace, somehow, what happens that you go beyond the cause and the effect.
You are beyond the cause and the effect. So the cause disappears and the effect also disappears.
So, today we all have come here to worship the peace, the within and the without.
Today is the second day of our new journey
into the battlefield.
We have to win people with love, compassion, affection and dignity.
When we say it’s a Vishwa Dharma, it’s a
Universal Religion we belong to,
first and foremost thing, the essence of that is peace.
The peace has to be within, to begin with. You have to be peaceful within yourself.
If you are not peaceful, if you are playing tricks with your ego,
if you are just satisfying yourself
saying that you are peaceful, you are sadly mistaken.
Peace is to be enjoyed within
yourself.
It is to be felt within yourself. So do not give wrong satisfactions to yourself,
do not give false notions to yourself. Don’t cheat yourself.
Peace has to be felt within yourself, and if you are not feeling that,
you shouldn’t come and ask me, “Mother, why I am not feeling it.” Because I am not going to tell you
that something [is] wrong with you. You have to work it out that you should feel peaceful within yourself.
It is not that if you have too much of silence outside, you feel peaceful.
The peace has to be within yourself.
You have it.
Your Spirit is absolutely peaceful, ‘avyagra’, without restlessness.
There is no restlessness in your Spirit, absolutely peaceful and steady.
It is for you to feel it. It is not for anybody else to certify you. This is one thing.
Secondly, when I am telling you something, you think I am not telling you. It doesn’t register in your brain.
You think I am telling it to X, Y, Z but not to you. You are not in it. That’s another sign [that] there is no peace.
Because there is no peace, there is no registration. Whatever
goes into your head,
that is going to work out. But what I find [is] that people [who] have concave personalities,
then they receive it.
Those who have convex personalities, do not register anything.
The registration is so poor that, whatever I say doesn’t have any effect on them. Otherwise, whatever I say is a mantra.
It should have direct effect on you, and you should feel that effect, that penetration within you.
But as if it is for somebody else,
as if it is not for you.
This shows there is no peace within you.
Only the peace within can register whatever is auspicious, whatever is nourishing for your growth.
So try to make peace with yourself. Do not fight with yourself,
“Why should I do it?”, “I am so bad!”, “I should not have done it!”.
All these things, you should not do.
Try not to fight with yourself, first of all.
Peace is the keynote, as I said, for universal growth of this Religion.
It is disturbed by many things.
Firstly, as I said, by yourself.
You shouldn’t have funny ideas about yourself.
People have very funny ideas.
I see Sahaja Yogis, as soon as they get realisation, or
something better happens to them, they start telling others
how to do meditation, how to stand up, how to give bandhan, how to do this and that. It’s very very poor, is very low level.
Now the peace within expresses, first of all, [as] peace with others.
That is the first sign of
manifestation of peace. Such a person doesn’t use harsh words,
doesn’t use cruel words.
But he’s also not a person who is ineffective. He’s very effective, using very sweet and nice words.
Maybe he begins by using harsh words, then he mellows down and comes down to a position where
he is effective as well as he is very mild and sweet.
Such a personality has to be developed outside.
So, peace with your friends, peace with
Sahaja Yogis. If you cannot be peaceful with Sahaja Yogis.
then you are no good. Absolutely no good.
When you meet another Sahaja Yogi you can’t bark like dogs at each other, can you?
You leave three Sahaja Yogis together, you end up with a big barking system.
They can’t manage within themselves.
If there are hundred, then it’s alright. But
you can’t leave three and four here and there.
So, the peace should be
with your brothers and sisters. They are all born out of My
Sahasrara and nobody has the right to insult,
to be sarcastic.
Saying things which are harmful.
So that is how, our culture is going to be such that we will express complete peace within ourselves.
And you must know that you are in one body, active.
You are active cells in one body.
All the cells in one body are never active.
But those who are active have to be at
peace with each other, otherwise,
what will happen to that poor body?
So try to make peace.
The second thing you can do to make peace is to talk less.
Whenever there is a quarrel or anything, just keep quiet.
You see, it will have better effect.
If two persons are quarrelling,
never try to solve it, but just keep quiet.
Quiet is very important. More to be silent.
But it should not be another extreme like English culture, that they just don’t talk, whatever it is.
They just don’t talk, but they think too much.
You must keep quiet with the feeling that ‘May
God bless these people some sense.”.
It should not be ice frozen sea, but peace which is
effective. Peace that is effective.
So in this new culture, we have to be extremely peaceful people.
And that peace should be expressed on your faces.
People should understand that you are peaceful.
You are peace on this earth.
But the way peace is put into this vessel has to be clean,
has to be neat and has to be placed in such a way that nothing spills out.
So to have peace, the best way to put your mind right, is to think of good things.
Think of the flowers, not of the thorns. What good things others have done to you.
What good things there are. What are the beautiful moments you have had, and count your blessings.
Count your blessings. Otherwise you cannot create peace.
The another aspect
of peace is never try to support anything that is boisterous or which is destructive. Or also is destructive.
Anything that is destructive is never to be supported.
But anybody who is being tortured or aggressed or dominated, is to be protected and supported.
If you have the strength of peace, you can do it just by standing there.
You don’t have to fight for your
peace. But if it comes to that…
A person like Hitler when he came, people had to fight for their peace.
So, the first thing that was said about Christ throughout in all these music and songs you have heard now is that ‘Peace on Earth.’
He came to create peace on earth.
That’s only possible when you are in balance, first of all, secondly when you are Realized.
Both things should be there. If only you get your Realization and there is no balance in you,
there cannot be peace.
But peace never means in any way, is a personality that recedes back,
runs away from situations, escapist, who does not want to face the reality – never means that.
We are creating a beautiful manger for Christ,
to create the peace on earth. We have to be peaceful!
To be peaceful one has to be humble, this is the message of Christ, humble.
If you become humble, peace will come.
Humble is a good word, I don’t know if it explains what it means.
Humble means: “Not asking for your own comfort, but comfort of others”.
Out of peace comes the joy, light of joy, happiness.
I wish peace for the whole world, for
the whole nations,
to understand to give up all the strives, all the false battles, for money and for power,
all wrong ideas that they are different from each other, and come under the banner of Sahaja Yoga
and enter into the Kingdom of God,
where they are invited with all respect and love.
I wish peace to all of them, to all the countries, all the human beings, in their families, in their hearts,
with their children.
With all of them, let there be peace,
Let their heart emit peace.
their tongues speak with peace, their eyes see nothing but peace.
All this has to change, tremendous change has to take place, the whole universe has to take a different turn.
All that is hatred, hateful, ugly, has to vanish,
and the peace has to prevail.
It is not the peace of the dead but peace of the living, that has to come, of the wise.
I bless all of you to be the channels of that peace,
to be beautiful channels of that peace,
to be glorious channels of that peace,
to be great children of your Mother, who is so proud
of you.
May God bless you.